If you follow the instructions, your WordPress powered site is already well protected.
Now let's take a look at how to write your own code in your theme or plugin from the security perspective.
You always need to check the permissions level of the current user.
If some functionality is restricted to a certain role in WordPress, the permissions coming from having
a specific role in the system are called capabilities.
You can see the list of system rules and capabilities in the documentation.
If there is a certain thing your theme or plugin can do, which should only be available to administrators,
you need to check if the current user is an administrator or not.
In WordPress, there's a function for that.
Current user can see the example.
The recommended approach is not to check the actual the roll, but the capability that is reserved for
that role.
That's why we don't verify if the user is an administrator.
But if the user can manage options, that is change WordPress settings and by default only admins have
this capability.
So this effectively adds the action and the callback function only for people with admin role.
No editor, subscriber or anonymous user will have access to it.
You might also need to prevent anonymous users from accessing certain functionalities if they are restricted
for logged in users.
To do that, you would need to call the user locked in function, which returns true if the current
person is logged in user of any role.
WordPress has a set of built in functions for escaping and sanitizing data.
Those which names start with sunny days actually transform the input by intensely filtering out certain
characters or otherwise converting the input to meet the certain requirements.
Those which names start with escape are mostly escaping the dangerous characters and are intended to
protect the site from cross-site scripting.
In fact, some of them use the HTML special charts function, which we already know.
Plus some additional filtering.
The full list of functions in each group are, of course, in the documentation.
Let's see a couple of them.
Sanitized title will transform the input into a slug that is a machine friendly representation of the
original string.
Only letters from A to Z digits, underscores and dashes.
It will convert the accented characters to matching letters from A to Z.
It's useful for sanitizing class names or URL parameters when you need the accented characters to be
converted to playing charts.
In this case, the Polish accented letters were correctly converted to corresponding plain letters.
Sunny days is HTML class can also be used for sanitizing class names and it will only keep the letters
A to Z, digits, underscores and dashes just like sanitized title.
But I wouldn't use it to generate a class name from a human readable string because it will not bother
to convert spaces into dashes and accented letters into plain letter counterparts.
It will completely filter them out.
Sunny days text field and sanitized text area field are useful for sanitising plain text input, single
line and multi-line respectively.
They will check for invalid Unicode characters, convert single angle brackets to entities, strip HTML
tags, remove extra whitespace and strip octets.
The WordPress Keys.
This function is the one that you need to use when dealing with HTML input.
It will filter out all dangerous and disallow each HTML tax and attributes.
For example script tags and event attributes like on the click.
You can specify your own array of LLC tanks and attributes by putting an array as a second argument.
In this example, we allow only a simple aid tag, but with on click attributes and see how the result
is different.
The on click is allowed.
The script that is still disallowed but now also beaten gets stripped.
See the documentation for other sanitizing functions.
There are more of them that with different purposes.
When it comes to escaping functions, these will be your friends.
ESC hd html to be used in html element content context like in this example.
This function checks for the illegal Unicode characters.
If they were found, the empty string is returned and use a slightly expanded version of each piece.
HTML special chars function.
Escalated our is for attribute values, but since under-the-hood it's basically the same as ESC yaml,
you need to watch out for proper quoting error and your attribute values.
Askew.
Earl is for escaping Earl's before putting them on the page, for example, in the sheriff or source
attributes.
You can provide an array of allowed protocols as a second argument to the function and the world that
it doesn't match.
The list will result in an empty string.
WordPress cases mentioned earlier is also a function that you should use when you were about to put
the East Timor content on your page.
If your theme or plugin makes states changing requests using custom forms or URLs, you should use non
as a mitigation against CSR if attacks.
WordPress makes it very easy for you with the set of functions.
WordPress create nonce that generates and not string.
If you need a role nonce.
WordPress nonce field that outputs the hidden input field with nonce to use in forums.
WordPress nonstructural that adds the non square restoring parameter to the URL.
And WordPress verify nodes that verifies if the NAS was correct.
As the documentation states, most values are tied to a specific action user, user session and a window
of time.
And by default, months, these are valid for 24 hours.